Update timestamping doc (#181)
sigstore/docs: content/en/cosign/timestamps.md

position: 113
---

Time is a critical component of Sigstore. It's used to verify that a short-lived certificate issued by Fulcio was valid at a previous point, when the artifact was signed.

During artifact verification, a client must verify the certificate. Typically, certificate verification would require that the certificate not be expired. In this model for code signing, the certificate would need to be longer-lived, on the order of months or years, and the signer would periodically re-sign the artifact. This becomes a burden on both the signer and verifier, who has to periodically re-fetch the code signing certificate.

Instead, Sigstore relies on time provided by another service. When verifying the short-lived code signing certificate, Sigstore verifies that the provided timestamp falls within the certificate's validity period. Sigstore clients can use either the time of inclusion in Rekor or a signed timestamp provided by a trusted timestamping authority.

## Timestamping in Rekor

> Sigstore clients relying on Rekor to provide the timestamp use the entry's inclusion time from the [`integratedTime`](https://github.com/sigstore/rekor/blob/35c4489abcff256298f1bc9f7caaf5a946750dac/openapi.yaml#L461-L462) response field, which is signed over in the [`signedEntryTimestamp`](https://github.com/sigstore/rekor/blob/35c4489abcff256298f1bc9f7caaf5a946750dac/openapi.yaml#L475-L482) signature.

Reviewer: May want to extend the hyperlink out of code text to make more legible as a link

Author: Done

If you have questions, come chat on Slack on the [#timestamping channel](https://sigstore.slack.com/archives/C047W7KEU6A).

### Using signed timestamps in Cosign

To use a TSA to fetch a signed timestamp during signing, pick a timestamp authority, and run:

```
export TSA_URL=https://freetsa.org/tsr
cosign sign --timestamp-server-url $TSA_URL <artifact>
```

To verify, retrieve the TSA's certificate chain, which must contain the root CA certificate, any number of intermediate CA certificates, and the issuing leaf TSA certificate. The chain could come from a trusted source such as [TUF metadata](https://theupdateframework.io/), from the TSA documentation, or through an API, `/api/v1/timestamp/certchain`, if the TSA is an instance of [the service we've implemented](https://github.com/sigstore/timestamp-authority). Run the following:

```
cosign verify --timestamp-certificate-chain ts_chain.pem <artifact>
```

## Future goals

> We could like to make timestamps immutable in Rekor. While the clock would not be verifiable and trust isn't distributed, it would make mutations to the timestamps detectable. We would like to include a signed timestamp, which could come from a 3rd party TSA or from a TSA operated by the Sigstore community, in the Rekor entry so that it is a part of the Merkle leaf hash computation and therefore becomes immutable. 

Reviewer: "We would like" instead of "We could like"? Or "We could in the future make timestamps..."?

Author: done

> As a long-term goal, we would also like to support Roughtime (https://blog.cloudflare.com/roughtime/), which distributes trust across a set of time providers. The specification is still under development, and there's opportunities for client & server development.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As a long-term goal, we would also like to support [Roughtime](https://blog.cloudflare.com/roughtime/), which distributes trust across a set of time providers. The specification is still under development, and there are opportunities for client & server development.
```
